Chest injuries are among the most severe injuries. In the chest there are vital organs (heart, lungs), large vessels, damage to which can be deadly. With chest injuries, severe complications often develop (for example, respiratory failure), which can be avoided with timely first aid.

In addition to fractures of the ribs, there are also injuries to the chest, in which its tightness is violated, which, in turn, leads to sharp disturbances in the functioning of the lungs and heart. Without providing adequate and timely assistance, this can lead to the death of the victim within a short period of time. Signs of such damage are the presence of a wound in the chest area, through which air is sucked in with a characteristic suction sound during inspiration; when you exhale, the blood in the wound may bubble. The victim's breathing is frequent, superficial, the skin is pale with a bluish tinge.

<b>Chest injury</b>
With chest injuries, fractures and bruises of the ribs are often noted, which are characterized by swelling at the fracture site, sharp pain, aggravated by breathing and changing the position of the victim's body.

<b>Fractured and bruised ribs</b>
In case of fractures and bruises of the ribs, it is necessary to give the victim a semi-sitting position and monitor his condition until the arrival of an ambulance.

<b>Wounded chest</b>
In case of chest injuries, the primary sealing of the wound with the palm of the hand should be carried out, after which a sealing (occlusive) bandage should be applied. To do this, an airtight material is placed directly on the wound (packaging from a dressing bag or bandage, polyethylene, oilcloth). After applying the airtight material, it can be secured with adhesive tape and the corner left unfixed. The left free corner acts as a valve - it does not allow air to enter the chest and allows you to reduce excess pressure in it. Another available method is to secure the airtight material with a bandage. Such a victim should also be given a semi-sitting position with an inclination to the affected side.

<b>Features of dressing a chest wound with a foreign body:</b>
1. If a foreign body is found in a chest wound (a piece of glass, metal, a knife, etc.), in no case should it be removed from the wound.
2. It is necessary to cover the foreign object with napkins or bandages, putting a pressure bandage over them to stop the bleeding.
