<b>How to determine the presence of breathing</b>
To check breathing, bend your cheek and ear to the mouth and nose of the victim and within 10 seconds. try to hear his breath, feel the exhaled air on your cheek and see the movements of the victim's chest. In the absence of breathing, the chest of the victim will remain motionless, the sounds of his breathing will not be heard, the exhaled air from the mouth and nose will not be felt on the cheek. Lack of breathing determines the need for cardiopulmonary resuscitation.

<b>Pressure on the sternum</b>
Hand pressure on the sternum of the victim, who should be lying on his back on a hard, flat surface. In this case, the base of the palm of one hand of the first aid participant is placed in the middle of the victim’s chest, the second hand is placed on top of the first, the hands are taken in the lock, the arms are straightened at the elbow joints, the shoulders of the first aid participant are located above the victim so that the pressure is applied perpendicular to the plane sternum. Hand pressure on the sternum of the victim is carried out by the weight of the torso of the first aid participant to a depth of 5-6 cm with a frequency of 100-120 per minute. After 30 hand pressures on the sternum of the victim, it is necessary to carry out artificial respiration using the “Mouth-to-mouth” method. To do this, open the victim's airways (tilt his head back, raise his chin), pinch his nose with two fingers, and take two breaths of artificial respiration.

<b>CPR breaths are performed as follows:</b>
It is necessary to take your normal breath, tightly wrap your lips around the mouth of the victim and exhale evenly into his airways for 1 second, observing the movement of his chest. The guideline for a sufficient volume of air to be blown in and effective rescue breaths is the onset of chest rise, visually determined by the first aid participant. After that, while continuing to maintain airway patency, it is necessary to allow the victim to make a passive exhalation, and then repeat the inhalation of artificial respiration in the manner described above. No more than 10 seconds should be spent on 2 breaths of artificial respiration. You should not make more than two attempts to inhale artificial respiration in between pressure with your hands on the victim's sternum. In this case, it is recommended to use a device for artificial respiration from the first-aid kit or styling.

<b>Performing mouth-to-nose artificial respiration</b>
If it is impossible to perform artificial respiration using the "Mouth-to-mouth" method (for example, damage to the victim's lips), artificial respiration is performed using the "Mouth-to-nose" method. At the same time, the execution technique differs in that the first aid participant closes the victim’s mouth when tilting his head back and wraps his lips around the victim’s nose.

<b>Continue CPR</b>
Next, resuscitation should be continued, alternating 30 pressures on the sternum with 2 breaths of artificial respiration.

<b>The main mistakes in resuscitation are:</b>
violation of the sequence of measures of cardiopulmonary resuscitation; incorrect technique for performing pressure with the hands on the victim's sternum (incorrect position of the hands, insufficient or excessive depth of pressure, incorrect frequency, lack of complete raising of the chest after each pressure); incorrect technique for performing artificial respiration (insufficient or incorrect opening of the airways, excess or insufficient volume of air blown); incorrect ratio of hand pressure on the sternum and breaths of artificial respiration; the time between pressing hands on the chest of the victim exceeds 10 seconds.
